# Stagnation in the NBA

There are clearly several winning programs in the NBA like the Boston Celtics, Milwaukee Bucks, and the up and coming, number one team in the west New Orleans Pelicans, but the majority of the teams in the NBA have been stagnating and quite frankly stink, have outdated rosters that don't make sense and can only reach mediocrity at best.  Today, the focus will be on the LA Clippers and some scenarios that could perhaps help some of these stagnation.

Kawhi Leonard is one of the best players in the NBA, period.  Having missed a little over a season, he seems to be slowly getting back to his old form which is a dominating forwarding that can score at will and stop some of the most explosive scorers in the history of the game. However, the roster around Leonard is unbefitting for the two time champion and can only lead to an early round exit from the playoffs.  

Paul George is a decent sidekick, and when compared to the sidekicks of Leonard's past, Manu Ginobli, Tony Parker, Pascal Siakam, Kyle Lowry, George can certainly match up to those players, though still unproven from a championship perspective, but with every bit of potential.  George does show lapses on the defensive and offensive end from time to time, take the game against the Celtics recently where Jalen Brown goes on the baseline uncontested for an easy backdoor layup, these are things that must frustrate Leonard as he sees his team struggle to maintain a top four seeding in the west.  George also has this knack for complaining, every possession he tends to put up his two hands in frustration with the referee's' call, just play through it and come back stronger on the next play, complaining never got anyone a championship.  I feel George has slipped from the top ten player list with his age starting to creep up, multiple injuries (shooting elbow surgery, broken leg), and thus he's really not fit to be Leonard's sidekick, he's not the Scottie Pippen to Michael Jordan or Dwayne Wade to Lebron James, perhaps more like a third option in a trio like Chris Bosh to Lebron or Tony Kukoc to Michael Jordan.  Trading George could be an option, he's making the same exact amount as Leonard so that would free up a lot of cash flow to get some firepower, but finding something similar would be difficult.

Marcus Morris, Sr. of the Morris twin reknown, is a really solid, three and D type player, he can defend any center in the game since he's almost seven feet tall, but he has the athleticism to defend point guards as well, this is absolutely important for today's switching game, he can light up from three point range which helps spread out the floor for Leonard and George to score since defenders will have to stay close to Marcus around the perimeter.  At his price, roughly 16 million a year, this is a little bit tight, but I think worth the value, like George, for the same price, you won't find many options that can deliver the same value.  His age is also a concern as he's slowly creeping up to 34 especially since he's defended some of the biggest players in the league, that tends to add wear and tear to player over time.  I would say these three are necessary.

The rest of the roster is where things breakdown significantly, Reggie Jackson is their starting point guard, he's had moments of brilliance in the playoffs, but these days due to the constant switching on defense, you really need some size at all positions which makes him a liability on the defensive end and his offense is too inconsistent for him to be taken seriously.  I've seen far too many critical games where he comes up with only single digit points.  Jackson is not really a pure point guard either, he's more like a shooting guard with a shoot first mentality, he doesn't really push the flow of the offense, set up players like Leonard and George for easy scores, they have to create on their own, and if defenders have the option to double team Leonard or George freeing up Jackson on the perimeter, most defenders would probable leave him open.  If he can't defend and he can't score, and he can't run the offense, and he costs 11 million a year, this is a serious liability.  The Clippers actually have a really good option here and I'm not sure why both coaches Ty Lue and Doc Rivers, both excellent true NBA point guards of the past and coaches that have won NBA Championships, but they have not given Terance Mann much playing time, he is one of the most impressive and underrated young players I have seen that has not gotten the right opportunities.  He is tall at 6 feet 5 inches, has long arms, impressive speed, and has the right mentality of driving the offensive flow, not only that, but he can score, just go look for his past games where he's had multiple 30+ point outbreaks, not to mention that he was a part of the reason why the Florida State Seminoles were so good at the time.  He should be the rightful starter for the Clippers, this is a major mistake and downright shameful!  Terance Mann makes less than 2 million and is in the prime of his career, why would you take an asthmatic Reggie Jackson?  Trade Reggie Jackson, get some role players that can help with the bench, this could also decrease the Clippers' luxury tax.

Luke Kennard, while a pretty good three point shooter, he is a pure liability on defense, slow footed, I don't know of a single player that he could stop consistently in the NBA.  Maybe because he can shoot the three, the Clippers are trading off the fact that he'll allow two points scoring, but he'll supplement with three pointers which will give him a positive plus/minus.  That is a losing strategy, trade Kennard, you need a 3 and D player, not just someone that can shoot the three.  He's also making 14 million a year, not worth it, if he's 6-8 million, I would consider.  Are you telling me that Luke Kennard is worth more than Morris, Sr?

Ivica Zubac, slow, dumb footed, in this day and age of small ball, he is a major liability, just watch the game against Boston where Zubac has to switch onto Jayson Tatum with the game on the line, Leonard hesitates, but then realizes that Zubac is about to get taken to the hole, leaves his man wide open on the three point line to help Zubac, but Tatum sensing this threat from Leonard, immediately drives to the paint for a layup.  Why do you keep poeple like this on the team?  Is it for the matchups where you need to bang against players like Jonas Valanciunas or Nikola Jokic?  How many teamns have a significant player at that size in today's small ball era, one that can score?  Embiid, Jokic, Valanciunas, three, there are 20 other teams that have use speed and skill over size.  If you take the Golden State Warriors as the benchmark, since they won the championship last year, Kevin Looney is their starting center, 6 feet 9 inches, he is never going to get the ball in isolation near the paint to score, his purpose is simple, offensive rebounds, put backs, and slam dunks.  Size is unnecessary when defending these types of players which is 90% of the teams in the NBA.  Get rid of Zubac, free up another 10 million.

Norman Powell is a baller with a championship, anyone at 6 feet 3 inches tall that dunks every chance he gets is my type of player.  Keep him, he knows how to play with Leonard, has won it before, and only costs 16 million.

Nicolas Batum, 34 years of age, a three and D type player, his three point shooting is a threat, so he will provide some spacing, he's long and athletic, but he's too old, his prime days were when he played for the Trailblazers, that was probably almost 10 years ago, he's not the same player with several significant injuries and age creeping up.  He can defend centers or point guards, but he's lost a step, he's very slow now, anyone can go around him and score.  At 10 million a year, he's another liability that should be traded, 6-8 million, no problem.

Robert Covington, he was once a starter on Philadelphia, playing along side Embiid, Simmons, and Saric, those were exciting times watching them spread the floor and jack up threes, he's a lenghthy and quick defender, but he just doesn't put up consistent numbers of offense, I would say he's really a defensive player, more so a perimeter defender, if someone gets into the paint, he's too skinny to defend.  At 12 million, another tradeable asset.

The Clippers need a lean center that can dunk and defend small or large players, just an athletic person like Robert Williams III or someone like Brook Lopez that can shoot the three and defend the paint.  They also need some role players that can defend first and foremost, and spread the floor on offense, 3 and D players that can really defend, OG Anunoby, Scottie Barnes, Mikal Bridges, Dillon Brooks, Jerami Grant, etc.  The current roster as constructed can only lose in the western conference finals at best, this is not a championship roster, you don't play for second place, you play it to win it, George and Leonard also have a limited shelf life, so a complete rebuild is coming, and the Clippers don't have the draft picks because they spent them on getting Leonard and George.